---
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---

I am broadly interested in all energy storage technologies that lead to a net-zero emissions society. I've specifically worked on different types of batteries for the past 7 years, including high energy density batteries (e.g. commercial Li-ion) for electric vehicles and portables, and long duration batteries (e.g. zinc-bromine) for grid-scale storage. Both of these applications are experiencing exponential drops in cost and increase in scale, globally. Below are a few examples of some of the interesting peer-reviewed projects I have worked on recently. 

**Acoustic detection of Li plating and cell gassing in commercial Li-ion batteries**
Commercial Li-ion batteries have been around since ~1991 and are stable enough to use in electric vehicles now. They can last thousands of cycles with > 99.9% Coulombic efficiency, and the energy densities are incrementally optimized with improvements to electrode thickness and cell packaging. However, their use of a flammable nonaqueous electrolyte as well as the safety concerns of the cathode may lead to catastrophic consequences especially if they are subject to irregular cycling protocols or environmental conditions. Lithium metal plating on the graphite negative electrode is a major concern if a lithium-ion battery is fast-charged. These batteries are typically rated up to around 1C (e.g. at a rate equivalent to a full charge in 60 minutes), but equivalent charge times comparable with combustion engine gas re-filling would require around 15 minutes, or a 4C charge rate. Such high charge rates severely limit transport at the particle scale in the battery and may lead to significant diffusion gradients that cause lithium to plate as metal rather than insert, or intercalate, into the graphite particles. Plated lithium metal can then lead to other side-reactions and electrolyte decomposition, hence limiting the performance and cycle life of the battery. In the [Cell Reports Phys Sci paper](https://wesleykchang.github.io/publications/2020_Cell_Reports.pdf), I show a large dataset that demonstrates the ability of acoustics to detect and estimate the degree of lithium metal plating during cycling. Since plated lithium metal affects the overall mechanical properties of the battery (e.g. by increasing the total thickness and decreasing the modulus), the sound speed and attenuation are both affected. These changes in sound properties are correlated with the amount of lithium plating. 
